---
layout: post
title: I. The Bund Area  
tags: [tour guide]
categories: tour-guide
---

Brief Introduction to the Bund
A Shanghai icon. The epitome of modern Chinese history. A panorama of various architecture styles. That's what usually comes to mind when talking about the Bund.
Located on the west bank of the Huangpu River, The Bund is the most recognizable architectural symbol of Shanghai. It covers a 1500meter stretch along the Huangpu River, running frome the Waibaidu Bridge to the Shiliupu Passenger Dock, and is described as the Wall Street of China due to its rows of banks and finacial institutions.
The very name "The Bund" conjures uo an image of an extraordinary skyline of the historic buildings and bustling crowds of travelers both from home and abroad. the tourist attraction on the bund lies in its same architect nor built at the same time, yet they harmonize in architectural tone, and the outlines were treated so well that no matter you walk in front of them or look at them from a distance, they all present visitors an air of dignity, elegance and magnificence. Most of the buildings belong to the style of neo-classicism and eclecticism, except the Sassoon House now(Peace Hotel) and the Broadway Mansions(now Shanghai Mansions). When you take a stroll along the embankment, you will see pointed Gothic roofs, arches of ancient Greece, Barque columns, Spanish balconies displaying before you the rich flavor of foreign lands, so unique and majestic.
The Bund area, once a terminal of docks and a lane for lovers, was closed in 2007 as the city planned to make it 'as charming as the champs elysee in paris.' Now throngs of visitors can lean against riverfront barriers, where once stood concrete walls the permitted a less-open view of the river. now people can walk along the broad new promenade. the promenade between a complex of high-rise buildings and the Huangpu River has been widened and the 11-lane surface road has been cut down to four lanes to make room for pedestrians after a 6-lane new tunnel opened beneath the Bund. The newly built platform and the wall are both part of the Bund promenade project featuring a pedestrain-friendly riverfront on which the brand-new facilities and other toutist attractions are built. Visitors can pose for pictures in front of "World architectural exhibition" with the modern skyscrapers of Lujiazui across the Huangpu River in Pudong New Area providing another backdrop. Bund beauty blooms again.
Tens of thousands of Shanghai residents and tourists swarm the Bund after the city's landmark site reopens. The 2000-meter promenade that stretches along the west bank of the Huangpu River has taken shape , after nearly three years renovation work , just in time for visitors to Shanghai world Expo. A vehicular tunnel which runs beneath the promenade, aims to relieve the traffic congestion on the Bund itself.
The Bund and its surrounding neighborhoood really have it all:
legends old and new, historic momuments and fast-changing progress, slices of local life and brand-name luxury-all within walking distance.
When dusk falls and lights are on. The splendid array of structures to linger longer . The Bund is worthy of its name as "a gallery of international architectures". 